### Chapter 1

I've always found that places have a feeling. Sure, it's occurred to me that's not a particularly insightful notion. The academy classrooms were all too often dreary; there's a certain calmness about the forest that surrounds my family's country estate; the Eastern battlefronts were a strange dichotomy of spontaneous courage and piss-yourself-terror. And I've been told that home was supposed to feel... homey.

But places have more than just their atmosphere. They have their people. They have their memories.

Strange emotions flooded in as I watched some of those memories flicker past through the polished windows of the train car. Even the distinct rumbling of the inbound train was nostalgic as we rumbled towards the Central Railway Station. It was particularly loud as it echoed through the luxurious cabin, empty, save for a lone passenger.

On the left lay the Sandwarren Market where my childhood self had given my caretakers a heart attack by scaling the enormous arch in the market's heart. Adjacent was the grand Stauffer Planetarium where my mother had taken us children on every possible occasion. Entucia was full of countless such memories.

However, besides the Market towered the Imperial Military Academy. Likewise, Stauffer deferred itself to the nearby Lans Imperial Palace, whose spires dwarfed its observatory and whose sponsorship buttressed its walls. That wasn't to say that the combination made the imperial capital of Entuica ugly; rather the architecture melded together to make the most beautiful city on the continent.

Entuica was home. It just didn't quite have that feeling, and I was never one for aesthetics.

My thoughts were interrupted by a knocking at the cabin's door. "Sir, we are on the final approach."

I made to leave and gave a final glance outside the windows. What I saw caused me to double-take: a mushroom of black smoke was blooming in the district past the market. I froze for a moment, confused. The shockwave hit me then, shattering the train car's windows and urging me into motion.

Was it just an accident? Something of that scale?

I burst into the hallway where other first-class passengers began swarming the panicked attendant who reassured them the explosion was surely just an accident. I paused there, processing the sight for a moment when the train screeched to a halt. With the station in sight, the train hadn't been moving too fast, but the sudden deceleration flung several of the passengers off their feet, one which caught their balance against my jacket.

"Tha-" the lady started, only to cut herself off and jump back. She had seen my family crest.

So much for the uneventful return that my father had been hoping for. "Keep it quiet," I whispered.

"O-of course, Lord Rigel."

"And tell the attendant to send my belongings to the Rigel Mansion."

She seemed confused about the command but I paid that little mind.

I swung back through into my cabin and vaulted out the broken window. I had alighted into the middle of a set of four elevated railways below which ran a busy commercial thoroughfare. The station was not three hundred meters to my right, and while I could make the short run and find a way off the rails, that would take precious time.

Rather, I produced a fingernail-sized vis crystal from my pocket, and I ran, leaping the small gaps between the rails. As the last of the stone bridgeways fell out behind me, I flung myself into the open air and the gasps of bystanders below. Instead of cratering into the crowd, I fised the vis crystal between my fingers. The vis coursed through my veins, erupting into twin jets of flames at my palms atop which I balanced and landed.

There was no time to reassure the policemen who had taken out their vis crystals in anticipated defence. There was no time to even catch my breath. All I could do was flash the Crest of House Rigel to placate their pursuit, before double-timing it towards the rising plume of smoke.

My senses must have dulled over the past year of sleepy postings. I should have recognized the explosion immediately. It wasn't a failed industrial process, nor some accident. I had seen thousands of those detonations before, but I'd never thought I'd see one over Entuica's skyline.

My lungs groaned from a year of underuse, but I pressed on. While I couldn't revert the damage, I would sure as hell prevent a follow-up.

That sentiment was shared by the policemen I found at the attack's epicentre. There must have been two hundred of them, locking down the district. And for each policeman, they were half a dozen other responders: paramedics, firemen, and a mass of good samaritans. The last of these were chased away as a battalion from the city garrison rolled down Fourth Boulevard.

The response was well warranted for the aftermath was far greater than I'd anticipated. The Gerris Lane Registry had been one of the older Ministry buildings, situated near the Historic Town Centre, and crafted of marble in the old Imperial style. Although beautiful up, I never had reason to visit, although the common folk often did, a fact that made the currently smouldering rumble all the more grisly.

Such utter devastation was common for a visic bombardment although this level of damage was typically restricted to airship-mounted munitions. No... I couldn't believe that the enemy bombers capable of the feat could penetrate so far into the imperial heartlands.

A firm hand grasped my shoulder before I could investigate further. I must have seemed somewhat important since the young soldier who'd restrained me bore the Insignia of a Garrison Lieutenant. "Sir, I'll have to ask that you vacate the premises."

I noted the officer's sharp eyes and spotless uniform. Coughing a bit, I reluctantly displayed my family crest. "Humor me a little, lieutenant. I'd like to examine the attack."

A brief frown flashed across his face, although he didn't contradict my presumption of an attack. The frown was promptly replaced by a professional smile. "Of course, Lord Rigel."

"Drop the honorifics, I'll need to keep things quiet."

"Of course, sir."

"Your name then, lieutenant? "

"Meurs, Second Liutentant Meurs of the Garisson of Entuica."

I nodded. "Alright, Meurs. You know anything of these attacks?"

His lips thinned. "It's not the first one, sir."

I raised my eyebrows. "Not the first?"

"The third in two months, sir. They've hit one of the intracity stations and one of the outer markets. Granted, this last one has been the largest. The last two have been more discrete."

That made quite a bit of sense given the scale and promptness of the relief effort. The city garrison must have made the two-mile march from the riverside barracks in the time I'd take to run over. Moreover, private forces from the nearby noble estates were now pouring into the site.

"The cause has been suppressed from the public: something of an open secret, but I'd assume that with your channels..." Meurs continued.

"I've been out of the city."

"Of course, sir."

I turned my attention back towards the remains of the Registry. "I don't suppose you haven't found anything of these... terrorists?"

"No, sir. The brass has us all pulling double duty. We're looking, but there have been no leads at all."

It would have to be quite a small team to avoid the entirety of the city authorities, especially given the lack of local support and logistics. How would they have even smuggled in the visic explosives?

I scratch my chin and shook my head.

I knew it probably wasn't worth the trouble to look further. I was due to leave Entucia within a few days, and I doubted my experience would add much. The Garrison had its own experts and the cooperation of the nobility. Despite the logic, I turned back to the fresh-faced lieutenant.

"Sir?"

"Walk with me, Meurs. Let's take a closer look."

He blinked. "I don't have the specialization. Shall I call forensi—"

"It's fine. Just keep up."

"Y-yes, sir."

It might have been a strange sight to see a stranger in civilian garb climbing through the rubble. The sight of the lieutenant scrambling behind me must have reassured the troops since no one stopped us. We made quick work of the terrain, only impeded by the dust and a small wall of cobbles.

Soon, we arrived at the atrium, at least what remained of it. There had been a skylight in the center, and the collapse of the ceilings had left a ring of relatively intact if blackened, flooring. The subterranean levels had mostly collapsed, and workers were frantically casting visic spells to search for the entombed. I had half a mind to help although my visic skillset was ill-suited for the task and the severity of the blast would leave few survivors if any.

Meurs, however, seemed itching to act.

"Just a moment. Before you help them." I requested.

"Of course, sir."

"I grew up in this city, but I rarely visited the registries. Would you be familiar with this building? When it was intact, I mean."

"Somewhat. My father was a leatherworker for one of the nearby shoemakers."

"I remember there was a staircase, probably now that pile of stone we just scaled. The registry had an archway, leading to the atrium. You could see into the building when the doors were open in the summertime. There were a series of these great old pillars that held up the central arch."

Meurs nodded slowly. "That's accurate."

I sniffed and observed the stumps that were once pillars. Typical of the Asecint Era's architecture, they were wholly overbuilt, more than two meters in width and visically carved out of solid marble. Despite that, half their number were severed at the base, and the others had toppled. I suspected that the damage continued into the basements which had collapsed despite the likey reinforcements.

Meurs was shuffling behind me, and I could see the gears turning in his head. I gave him a wave. "Thank you, Lieutenant. I'll be fine on my own."

He seemed to want to add something but gave a snappy Lans salute and rushed off.

The salute told me he'd realized some of my background, not surprising given the tendency of noble descendants to serve with the Imperial Army, and that was discounting the martial heritage of my house.

House Rigel had a proud history of front-line leadership across the Harion continent campaigns. Even though the Eastern Front had ground into a stalemate for four years now, I had seen my share of combat. No, I'd never had to take direct action, but the daily exchanges of visic artillery and aerial bombardments were all too familiar.

That's why the terrorist attack was screaming at my instincts.

The damage was too much for a simple demonstration. This was the kind of thing that took a pair of Rizetian heavy bombers to pull off, and those flying behemoths dropped visic explosives by the half-ton. The terrorists would have had to smuggle all of that in and plant it without discovery.

How would they have even gotten so much explosive into the city? What was their affiliation? Probably one of the four states against whom the empire currently warred. In that case, how did they get the support for their operations, so deep into the empire?

I gave these questions a few minutes' thought and turned away from the wreckage.

There was little left for me to do, and the first of the survivors were emerging from beneath the rumble. Other noble factions were already swarming around, and overstaying would draw unnecessary attention. I called over one of the city garrison personnel, requesting a possible meeting with Meurs the next day. Perhaps the authorities would find more than I would.

Then, I simply went home.

My family had originally arranged to pick me up a the station although there was little chance of that happening. A lockdown had been imposed following the attack, and the intracity monorail was out of commission. Maybe I could have gotten the garrison to lend me a ride, but I was content to walk.

The thoughts I'd been suppressing bubbled up again. What did my father want? He hadn't even called me back to the capital when I'd sent him that letter two years ago. After that, he'd thought of me as his greatest disappointment, but he was the kind of man to sweep such failures under the rug. That's why I'd been assigned to the supply lines in the northeast.

What had changed so suddenly?

The Rigel Manor lined the Ent River waterfront, a stone's throw from the political heart of the empire and across from eyot that held so many of the city's famous restaurants and shops. I followed Fifth Avenue, one of the quieter main roads which housed a disproportionate amount of schools and aspiring scholars. I might have been too distracted or else, the road was shorter than my memories, because I quickly arrived.

The manor wasn't much different from what I'd remember although, admittedly, a couple of years wouldn't amount to much. The late afternoon sun shone over the same black iron fence which stood guard over the same six acres of the same polished lawns and exotic flora. The manor itself was more modern than its surroundings but was supposed in style, with an obsession for larger-than-needed features and minimalism. My father's wife never shut up about the praises the hardheaded Foreign Minister had supposedly given when he'd visited a decade prior.

Thankfully, the guards were much the same too. Otherwise, my soot-covered jacket and torn trousers might have gotten me chased away as a vagabond. Instead, they called up the first familiar face I'd seen since my return.

"Arran!" roared the mustachioed captain who enveloped me in a great bear hug.

"Damn good to see you too, Captain Krag, " I chuckled as I echoed the gesture.

We broke apart and, Wallace Krag, Captian of the Rigel Manor Guards, looked me up and down. "You've finally put some meat on those bones!"

"I've been off of the frontlines for some time. All I can say is that the supply troops eat good."

Krag bellowed in laughter. "I reckon Missus Flandra would like to have a word with them."

I smiled at the thought of the dumpy head chef who always smells of sweet spices and coffee. "Little need for that Krag, I'm half-starved after today."

Krag's grin gave out at those words. His eyes shifted to the horizon, where the smoke was reluctant to part with the otherwise peaceful skyline like a stubborn bloodstain on a canvas.

"No need to worry, I wasn't caught in it," I reassured.

"You might not have been, but you still got involved in any case."

I could only smile sheepishly.

"Well, I can't say it's uncharacteristic, " Krag huffed, and his toned turned more serious. "But it's real nasty business, I'm sure you've heard."

"Terrorists, although not of your garden variety."

"Yup. This would be the third attack, and each is a real professional job. You're at least familiar with the scale of this last attack but none of them have been small, far more damage than a simple visic spell can cause. Very few visic carvers have the technical prowess to fabricate the sort of explosive yield without a massive amount of vis crystal."

"If I hadn't known better, I'd have sworn it the Rieztats had gotten in with their bombers."

"Haven't seen a site personally. It's that bad, huh?"

I nodded.

Krag seemed to ponder the information before cracking his neck. "It's nothing worth your trouble. After the last attack, your father drew additional manpower from the territory. He's collaborating with the police force and the local garrison on the matter, and it'll only be a matter of time until the terrorists are found with all the assets the nobles are throwing in."

The Captian's analysis was spot on. There was little a foreign terror group could do so deep in enemy territory. They had no way to sustain prolonged operations without a constant supply of vis, especially if so much of the reserves needed to go towards explosive manufacture. That was notwithstanding the city-wide manhunt that would surely expand after the day's incidents.

Of course, that was assuming the terrorist presence was foreign. Even so, few domestic organizations had the assets back such bold endeavours, leaving the nobility. Such a notion seemed absurd given the absolute power currently held Lans Imperial Throne and the wartimes measures with which they lashed internal dissidents.

Krag must have surmised my train of thought. "You reckon it's treason?"

"I do, it's the only logical conclusion."

"The imperials share that sentiment. There was a Royal Emissary who arrived only a couple of hours after the explosion, really fast if you ask me. Anyways, he's currently talking with you—"

"Wait, the throne suspects my father?" I interrupted. "You know I hate my father more than anyone, but I know no house nor man more patriotic."

Krag shrugged. "Fair, and I suspect that it'll only be a summons. Of course, I'm not privy to the details, although Rigel is not the sole recipient of such a visit. All nobles of some importance were notified."

What Krag had left unsaid was the absurdity of such a broad summons. The empire was at _war_. The mighty imperial army was spread thin across three fronts and an enemy alliance of four nations and a dozen city-states. Without the nobles and their private armies, a foundational force in the imperial system, the tide may very well have turned.

My father, Duke Castlek Rigel, head of the Noble House Rigel, would have been a lead on the frontlines were it not for the crippling injuries he'd sustained in service of the empire. Other major players were scattered across Harion, and even if their leaders were exempt from the summons, the scope of the Imperial commandment was staggering. And all this, for an attack in a city whose garrison already numbered more than thirty thousand, when the Imperial Guards were counted. This evaluation even neglected the thousands of policemen and guards.

All this, for a terrorist cell which conceivably numbered around ten. The terrorists were skilled, sure, but no one was that good—except maybe the founding emperor of Lans.

Krag, took the silence as a cue to move on. "Well, it's a bit above our pay grade, so let your father deal with it." Realizing the soot that was covering his otherwise pristine uniform, he frowned at me. "And you're looking a mess. Ditch the clothes, and get Flandra to send up something with some actual spice, none of those tasteless rations."

"Will do!"

Krag gave a nod, and I was free to jog the quarter kilometre to the manor, a sprawling complex that perched itself on the cliff that overlooked the river. It was built in two distinct wings and connected by sky bridges to a central block. The west wing, a large annular building that encircled a small garden, was where much of the family's housing arrangements were situated.

The place was quieter than I'd remembered, and the estate staff seemed to have retired for the evening. This was doubly so, as entered through the side passage near the burbling fountain the old gardeners were so fond of maintaining. The corridors were mostly bare, although a pair of passing maids gave me a polite nod. I stepped onto the service visic elevator they'd just vacated and rode it to the top floor.

A pair of family guards awaited me, flinching at my appearance although I was soon ushered into my suite that commanded a sweeping view of the glowing waterfront. It wasn't attached to the Master's Chambers although it did lay adjacent. The room itself was much like I'd remembered it, but I didn't examine it further in the dying light of the evening sun. I only ran a hot bath and collapsed on my old bed.

At least some things were good about going home.

Wrenley woke me up after what must have been a couple hours. She'd started with a knock, although the lack of light through the doorframe must have foretold my slumber because the knocking soon escalated to a pounding.

"Damn it!" I shouted. "I heard you the first time."

She mustn't have heard or she was just being annoying, as she continued banging until I opened the door and nearly took a knock to the brow. I sighed: it was definitely the latter.

"Hullo, coz!" she exclaimed.

"Yes, it's good to see you too, Wrenley," I groaned.

She beamed at that, giving me the chance to examine her. I'd been away from the capital for two years, and away from the Rigel territory for two more. In the interim, she'd grown much taller, now a young lady in the early twenties; her black hair with a streak of red, a staple of the Rigel lineage, was now cut shorter. She had abandoned the high-waisted pleated skirt she favoured for a more formal gown that I didn't recognize.

In short, she was no longer the little munchkin I knew.

And Wrenley immediately sought to disprove me. "Coz, you're fat now."

I sputtered. "Who says that!"

She sniffed. "Well, it's true."

"But you don't tell that to people! Aunt Mirtha, would be devastated if she knew you were insulting heirs of prestigious noble houses."

"And you're prestigious?" she laughed.

"Most certainly."

"And that's why Uncle Castlek has you serving duty in the northeast. Those famous gotberries are indeed invaluable, worth even the stewardship of the future lord of Rigel. Supple and tender; sweet with a hint of tang: a real superfood, if I've ever tasted one."

I felt a sudden urge to give Wrenley a solid punch on the shoulder but settled on grabbing her by the wrist.

She didn't seem to notice. "Even the heir isn't immune to their draw, eating so many that he'd p—"

"Damn it, Wrenley," I interrupted. I took stepped beside her and glance down the corridor. Seeing no one, I dragged into her my suite and locked the door behind us. "You know how my father is about these matters."

"So aggressive, Master Rigel! Dragging me into your be..." her sarcasm trailed off. Wrenley was silent for a moment, biting her lip before swallowing. "So coz, you've been through a lot. Just five years and you're no longer the older cousin who'd take us into the forest to go bird hunting."

I nodded.

Wrenley eyes seemed to water for a moment. She twirled a strand of red hair around her forefinger. "Well, it's not that I didn't expect much better after all uncle got the letter two years ago."

I had written that letter myself but had no way to gauge my father's reaction. "What did he say?" I asked.

"Well, I don't know much about it, mostly hearsay, you see. Uncle had been in a war council when he received it. I don't get the details, but word travels. The attendants mentioned he was quiet and left quite suddenly. Not shocked, but disappointed, I hear."

I coughed. "My father is disappointed when I tie my boots too loosely."

"There was a big ruckus about what he'd received about, a bunch of speculation about bad news through the family spy network. Word broke out that the letter was from you, and within the month, I'd heard that you'd been transferred to the barren northeast where Lenna is stationed."

I nodded grimly.

"Oh, coz. That's... I-I," Wrenley sniffed. "I thought you'd been disowned. I know you aren't cut out for that sort of work, and that you'd... And, I really thought you'd been disowned. But then there was no news of it, no news for years, and..."

"And here I am."

"And why are you here? Why here now? What does uncle want two years later?"

"You see, I haven't the foggiest idea," I admitted. "But I could ask you the same. Shouldn't you be back in the family estate? What bring you so far from the territory and to the capital."

"What about your... issue?"

I shrugged. "There's not much more to be said, and frankly, I'd rather talk about something a little less stressful."

Wrenley suddenly seemed interested in the large bow that was tied around her waist. She adjusted it for a few seconds before looking back at me. "I'm a priestess in training."

I blinked. "Oh."

"Is it that surprising?" Wrenley asked with a smirk.

"No, it's just that I wouldn't imagine they'd accept imps into the temples."

She socked me on the shoulder. "That's uncalled for."

I laughed it off. "Why I didn't hear of this earlier?"

"Well, it was only a decision made a bit more than a year ago. And it's not like I didn't try to keep in touch, but it was, say, highly discouraged."

I nodded, the volume of correspondence had plummeted since my assignment. "And you choose this calling?"

"To some extent... I don't have the raw visic might that you have, nor the tenacity that cousin Lenna does. I just have above-average vis manipulation. My mother's always been the most religious one in the family, and it's decent enough a job. It just sort of happened."

"I see."

Wrenley didn't seem to trust my acceptance. She stared me down. "But why were you so surprised to hear it."

"Well, it just doesn't seem like something you'd be suited to... " I coughed as she keep staring. "So, what do you priestesses even do?"

Wrenley puffed out her chest. "Well, besides the ceremonial fluff—shenanigans, really—I'm training to communicate with local spirits. When I'm assigned to the temple back home, I'd be in charge of the prophecies and seeking the guidance of... And shouldn't you know this?"

"Can't remember the last time I was in one of the temples."

"Hmmph, that's a bit of a shame. Besides the lack of religious considerations, which I know you aren't very interested in, some of the temples are nice. You ought to visit..." Wrenley continued but much of it was her typical banter.

I listened with half an ear, thinking about it all. Wrenley might have criticized my devotion, although I clearly remember that she'd been no better than I was. No, it wasn't a bad thing, but I'd never thought I'd see the day her willing to submit to the rules and paths that came with the priesthood. The little twerp who'd tailed along at the back of our group during the excursion of my childhood was grown-up now.

Times had changed. However, the one constant was Wrenley's blabbering. She talked and talked and talked, about her duties at the temple, about the estate affairs, and about the fate of the shopkeeper girl she'd insisted, I'd fawned over. My dinner, which Wrenley was supposed to bring me, was cold by the time she remember to retrieve it from the hallway.

The conversation lasted a couple of hours, and while it was far from enlightening, it was... endearing—far more than the one that occurred later that night.
