My father was old—and that was notwithstanding his actual age, fifty-six if I recall correctly. He simply looked old, tired even, wrinkled jowls wreathed with a grey beard that seemed to shed incessantly. He walked with a perpetually limp, the crippling product of an injury he'd sustained in his many years of service and leaned against a cane that seemed two inches too short.

The years hadn't been kind to Duke Castlek Rigel, two wars, three campaigns, and a neverending pledge to his empire. The result was most visible in his eyes. Much as the world had been harsh to him, so too was his glance toward it. Even though his red irises were obscured in the long shadows of the garden, I could feel their piercing scrutiny.

The garden was a strange place to meet.

I'd last seen him in the Duke's office, where his recent battles with paperwork had confied him. It was odd to see him surrounded by documents, but even odder to see the enveloping embrace of the canna lilies and blooming fruit trees. He sat at a tea table instead of a monolithic mahogany slab, in the glow of lanterns instead of hard visic desk lamps.

I crossed the bridge, reaching the raised platform set in the middle of a small pond on which he stood. I paused three paces away. He seemed to await my words, but I knew better than to humour him.

"Arran," he finally said. His voice was raspier than I'd remembered. "Welcome home."

I forced a smile. "Yeah, old place hasn't changed much, Still alright."

"Better than the barren northeast."

"It's not an awful place when you're used to it. A bit cold, but "
